Tuesday, February 14, 2017

1. Added a to do file to Git
2. Made a container for GameLabel

Monday, February 13, 2017

1.	Updated the README.md file
2.	Successfully created a GitHub repository for the project
3. Make a container for the GameLabel components. You cannot simply use the
Background component as the container as that will ruin the placement of all other components.


Friday, February 10, 2017

Initial Brainstorming
1.	Make objects and fix the degree at which the defense tower could spin 
2.	FireBase service —> login, database, push notifications, high score system
3.	However this should still be accessible
4.	Artyium - voice recognition 


Game Brainstorming
1.	Start developing GitHub repository for Geometry Defense, learn HTML canvas
2.	Do a write up and send it to Daniel or share your GitHub README.md
3.	Implement Howler and 3D sound depending on the position of the tower defense
4.	For people with blindness 
5.	Make appointment with Dr. Bishop to go over your project
6.	Only use React, do not use jQuery for the animations  


Monday, February 6, 2017
Initial Brainstorming

•	Goal – email Daniel with ideas about work study games that are accessible
•	Expected outcome – create a game that involve various degrees of freedom. Start with low levels of freedom and make your way up. Use the React library and other applicable JavaScript libraries as necessary.
•	Popular Atari and Nintendo games – Asteroids, Pac-Man, Pong, Joust, Donkey Kong, Popeye, Zelda, Mario Kart, Pokémon, Kirby, River Raid

Game Brainstorming

•	Asteroids
a.	Game description: there is an aircraft in the center of the screen and it has to clear the approaching asteroids
b.	Improvisation: make a tower defense type of game where a spherical object is around the tower and shoots geometrical shapes approaching the tower.
c.	Degrees of freedom
i.	High degree of freedom: the user gets to move counterclockwise and has the ability to shoot the missiles
ii.	Intermediate degree of freedom: the user gets to move counterclockwise without having the ability to shoot missiles. The missiles are constantly firing off.
iii.	Low degree of freedom: the user does not get to move. The user can only shoot. This version will be modified to make it possible to play the game without having to worry about maneuver the spherical object in the center defending the tower.
iv.	Lower degree of freedom: there can be even a lower degree of freedom version where the player gets to only choose when to fire the “special” geometrical missile. The computer plays the game but the user only gets to input when the “special” missile is available for use.
•	Ping Pong
a.	Game description: this game is very similar to ping pong, except this time you are playing against the computer, not another player
b.	Improvisation: there is no improvisation needed for this. The game should just be made more accessible for people with disabilities.
c.	Degrees of freedom
i.	High degree of freedom: the user has the ability to move up and down the ping pong board
ii.	Intermediate degree of freedom: the user does not have the ability to move up and down. However, the user has the ability to hit the ping pong ball once the ping pong racket reaches the ball.
iii.	Low degree of freedom: the user does not have the ability to move up and down. The user has the ability to hit the ping pong ball once the ping pong racket reaches the ball, however, the user has an unlimited amount of time to hit the ball once it reaches the racket, unlike the intermediate degree of freedom version.
•	Mario Kart
a.	Game description: a player gets to choose a player and vehicle and races other players to get to the finish line first
b.	Improvisation: instead of choosing Nintendo characters, the user gets to choose a geometrical shape. The shapes race against each other. Each shape has its own advantages: speed, acceleration, handle, drift, turbo, etc. Whoever gets to the finish line first, wins. Instead of a 3D game though, this game will be a 2D rendition and improvisation of the Mario Kart game.
c.	Degrees of freedom
i.	High degree of freedom: the user can move left and right, in addition to moving forward. Also, the user can fire off special abilities such as turbo when possible.
ii.	Intermediate degree of freedom: the user can move and left, but does not have to press the forward key to move forward. The user can fire off special abilities as well.
iii.	Low degree of freedom: the user can only move left and right, but they cannot move forward. In addition, they cannot fire off special abilities. The computer automatically takes care of what happens to the special abilities once they become activated.
iv.	Lower degree of freedom: the user cannot control the movement of the vehicle at all. They can only control special abilities once they become activated.
•	River Raid
a.	Game description: a player maneuvers an airplane, shooting enemy aircrafts along the way. The airplane has limited fuel, and the player must obtain fuel to keep moving forward.
b.	Improvisation: there is no improvisation necessary for this game. Degrees of freedom are the only things that need to be taken into account.
c.	Degrees of freedom
i.	Higher degree of freedom: the user is given the ability to move left and right. They also have the ability to fire missiles at enemies and they also must worry about re-fueling the airplane.
ii.	Intermediate degree of freedom: the user is given the ability to move left and right. They also have the ability to fire missiles at enemies, but they do not have to worry about re-fueling the airplane.
iii.	Low degree of freedom: the user can only move left and right, avoiding objects as they approach the airplane.
